---
title: Chapter 1 notes
date: 2025-03-01
categories: [Chapter Notes, Chapter 1]
tags: [TAG]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
math: true
---

## Introduction

Earlier today I explained the idea of a Fourier series to my grandma in terms of epicycles (check out [this great article](https://www.jezzamon.com/fourier/index.html)). When I was done she asked me something like

> Why the hell did people come up with this? Just to make a problem to solve?
{: .prompt-danger }

I'd made the mistake of communicating the solution before the problem. In [the textbook](https://www.amazon.com/Fourier-Analysis-Introduction-Princeton-Lectures/dp/069111384X/) which serves as the inspiration for these notes, the authors devote the whole first chapter to laying out the problem.

## Why the hell did Fourier come up with this?

Joseph Fourier was studying the behavior of heat. Heat obeys the Diffusion Equation

$$ \frac{\partial u}{\partial t} \propto \nabla^2 u $$

This equation says that **elements move towards the average of their neighbors.** 

Imagine a social experiment where you have 30 citizens arranged in a circle, you cut them off from communication with the outside world, and you force them to discuss their opinions of the president with their neighbors. If you asked each citizen to give their opinion of the president on a scale of 1-100 before and after their conversations, and you found that afterwards the citizens changed their opinions to be closer to their neighbors, then you

## complex numbers polar form
> Here is how to represent the unit circle in the complex plane
{: .prompt-info }
$$
\begin{equation} 
\textcolor{\orange}{e^{i\theta}} \textcolor{\green}{=} \textcolor{\cyan}{\cos(\theta)} + \textcolor{\purple}{\textbf{i}}\sin(\theta)
\end{equation}
$$

## A useful estimate of Weyl

For every $$H \leq N$$, 

$$
\begin{equation} 
\frac{1}{N^2} \left( \sum_{n=1}^{N} e^{2\pi i f(n)} \right)^2 \textcolor{\green}{\leq} \frac{4}{NH} \sum_{h=0}^{H} \sum_{n=1}^{N-h} e^{2\pi i \left[f(n+h) - f(n) \right]}
\end{equation}
$$

## The Cauchy Schwarz inequality

If $$ \mathbb{V}$$ is an inner product space, then for every $$ \textbf{u},\textbf{v} \in \mathbb{V} $$

$$
\begin{equation}
\color{green}
\left| \langle \textbf{u}, \textbf{v} \rangle \right|^2 \leq \left| \left| \textbf{u} \right| \right|^2 \left| \left|\textbf{v}\right| \right|^2
\end{equation}
$$

## An inductive proof outline of the binomial theorem

$$
\begin{align*}
(x + y)^n &= \prod_{i = 1}^{n} (x + y) \\
& = (x + y) \prod_{i = 1}^{\textcolor{red}{n-1}} (x + y) \\
& = (x + y) \sum_{k=0}^{n-1} \binom{n}{k} x^k y^{n-k} \text{ (by the inductive hypothesis)} \\
& = \sum_{k=0}^{n-1} \binom{n}{k} x^{k+1} y^{n-k}  + \sum_{k=0}^{n-1} \binom{n}{k} x^k y^{n-k+1} \\
&= \sum_{k=0}^n \binom{n}{k} x^k y^{n-k}
\end{align*}
$$

## Can I use html?

<ol>
<li> this is number one </li>
<li> this is number two </li>
</ol>


<details>

<summary> some code </summary>

<iframe
  src="https://rmfulton.github.io/interactiveCodeExamples/repl/index.html?kernel=python&theme=JupyterLab Dark"
  width="100%"
  height=400
></iframe>

<iframe
  src="https://rmfulton.github.io/interactiveCodeExamples/notebooks/index.html?path=interactive_examplex.ipynb&theme=JupyterLab Dark"
  width="100%"
  height=800
></iframe>

</details>
